---
layout: post
title: BareGrep
date: '2006-11-08 02:22:00'
---

<p>I recently ran across a great tool ( <a title="BareGrep" href="http://www.baremetalsoft.com/?app=BareGrep&ver=3.00b&build=2006-05-03" target="_blank">BareGrep</a> ) to perform UNIX-like grep commands in Windows. The more I use the tool, the more I continue to appreciate it.</p> <p>You can download and use the software for free. If you purchase it, then the nag screen goes away and I think there may be more functionaity.</p> <p>Anyway, today I was asked to extract all the references to color ( embedded styles and CSS classes ) from our web application. With all the RGB and HEX values dispersed across the site it could have been a tedious daunting task, however, with the help of BareGrep it didn't take very long.</p> <p>I used BareGrep with the following settings to recursively search our codebase for references to RGB values. </p><br><table width="100%" border="1"><tbody><tr><td> Folder:</td> <td>C:\starteam\myhealthIQ\UserInterface\Web</td></tr><tr><td> Files:</td> <td>.*\.(cs|aspx|html|xsl|js|css|ascx|master)</td></tr><tr><td> Text:</td> <td>(\(\s*\d+,\s*\d+,\s*\d+\s*\))</td></tr></tbody></table><br><p>Note: I did another search for HEX values using another regular expression.</p> <p>Once I got the results from the above two searches, I exported the values and ran a BareGrep "Invert Match" search against our standard colors ( example: "(196,\s*38,\s*39)|(165,\s*176,\s*65)|etc..." ) to isolate any unapproved colors.</p><br>I actually came across the above tool while I was looking for a Tail application for Windows and found <a href="http://www.baremetalsoft.com/?app=BareGrep&ver=3.00b&build=2006-05-03" target="_blank">BareTail</a>. I recommend this tool as well if you need a tool to show the end of a log file in real time.