---
layout: post
title: Increase Your Website Performance by Hosting jQuery with a CDN
date: '2009-09-30 04:25:00'
---

<p>In the following screencast I will demonstrate how to speed up your website by using a Content Delivery Network (CDN). Specifically, I will be swamping out a local copy of jQuery with one hosted by Google. You can host a variety of files (example: jQuery, jQuery UI, Prototype, script.aculo.us, MooTools, Dojo, SWFObject, YUI, etc...) with a CDN as well, but the following screencast only shows jQuery being hosted.</p>  <p>First of all, you might be wondering "What is a CDN and why do I need to use one?". If so, you are in luck because Encosia wrote a great <a href="http://encosia.com/2008/12/10/3-reasons-why-you-should-let-google-host-jquery-for-you/">blog post</a> concerning this question and here is what he came up with. A CDN provides... </p>  <ol><li>Decreased Latency </li>    <li>Increased Parallelism </li>    <li>Better Caching </li> </ol><p>For a detailed explanation of the above 3 concept please read his detailed <a href="http://encosia.com/2008/12/10/3-reasons-why-you-should-let-google-host-jquery-for-you/">blog post</a>. Now without further ado, here is the screencast.</p>  <p></p>  <p> In the above screencast, I showed how you can replace your local reference of jQuery (see line 4 below) with a version of jQuery that is hosted on a CDN (such as line 5 from Google or line 6 from Microsoft). </p>  <pre><head id="Head1" runat="server"><br>    <title>Test Page</title><br>    <link href="../../Content/Site.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" /><br>    <script src="../../Scripts/jquery-1.3.2.min.js" type="text/javascript"></script><br>    <script src="http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.3.2/jquery.min.js" type="text/javascript"></script><br>    <script src="http://ajax.microsoft.com/ajax/jquery/jquery-1.3.2.min.js" type="text/javascript"></script><br>    <script type="text/javascript"><br>        $(function() {<br>            console.log('jQuery has been loaded & document is ready!');<br>        });<br>    </script><br></head></pre> <p></p> <p>It is worth to not that even after updating your update to use Google or Microsoft as your CDN, YSlow will still not recognize those files as being hosted on a CDN. YSlow only recognizes itself, Yahoo, as a known CDN. The good news is that you can register other CDNs (such as Google &| Microsoft) deep inside of Firefox's configuration. In order to update this setting you can follow these instructions…</p> <p></p> <ol><li>Type in 'about:config' into the Firefox's navigation TextBox </li>   <li>Filter for the 'extensions.yslow.cdnHostnames' Preference Name </li>   <li>Double-Click & enter 'ajax.googleapis.com,ajax.microsoft.com' into the dialog box </li>   <li>Restart Firefox and re-run YSlow </li></ol><ol>As I mentioned above, there are many files on CDNs that are available for you to reference in your project. The two CDNs that I highlighted in the above screencast are… </ol><ul><li><a href="http://code.google.com/apis/ajaxlibs/" target="_blank">Google AJAX Libraries API</a> </li>   <li><a href="http://weblogs.asp.net/scottgu/archive/2009/09/15/announcing-the-microsoft-ajax-cdn.aspx">Microsoft AJAX CDN</a> </li></ul>